# Web3 up close

## Web3
## Polkadot ecosystem
### The complete service stack for Web3 builders

Polkadot is a “blockchain of blockchains,” allowing many different types of chains to work and interact securely together within the same ecosystem. The network has already contributed great promise and significant progress by encouraging individual sovereignty over personal and business data. Andmore importantly, the integration of diverse parachains into a scalable and flexible network set a new standard for Web3 builders.

#### Evolution of blockchain applications

Bitcoin - the very first application of blockchain. Soon, the potential to create other decentralized applications grew big. Through the need for improved tools and technological basis, the next-gen blockchain upgrade sprouted in the form of the Ethereum network. A smart-contract-based technology made it possible to exchange value besides just the currency and gave way for developers to build and deploy dapps on top of Ethereum.
 
Ethereum - using the one-network-serves-all model resulted in limitations like flexibility, scalability, and sovereignty. While building dapps on Ethereum proved beneficial for many industry verticals and demonstrated innovations increase, the mass-scale adoption still fell behind because of the rigid network system and limited scalability of transactions.

#### Polkadot offers flexibility and more

The Polkadot network is becoming the forefront of a scalable Web3 universe-building and mass adoption of blockchain – by connecting different blockchains into one unified network. Unlike layer-1 blockchains, layer 0 of Polkadot allows for multiple layer-1 blockchains to be built on top of it. The Polkadot team even created a framework called Substrate, where developers can build blockchains that work independently from one another.

Polkadot’s layer 0, or the so-called relay chain, executes minimal basic actions in terms of network security and makes the communication between chains possible. The blockchains as parachains design their own governance structures, fine-tune their functionalities, and (usually) serve a specific use case purpose.

It’s a win-win situation:

* Parachains have more flexibility in building the architecture and therefore contribute better, more specialized services with improved efficiency.
* Polkadot as an ecosystem offers higher scalability by processing transactions on different chains in parallel and gives way for more innovation due to more specialized parachains.


#### Room for improvement

Polkadot is currently the leading, highest value, and most secure proof-of-stake platform. Nevertheless, every technology’s success can benefit from a reliable support system that can enhance its adoption and bring it to the masses. Each innovation is only as strong as its community of users.

Web3 developers still face considerable challenges when building on Web3. Polkadot offers an excellent foundation, but there’s still enormous amounts of time that need to be invested in the research and development by the builders.

By making Web3 easier to build on, the Authtrail platform will assist in the adoption of use-case-specific Polkadot parachains and bring the utility of Web3 to enterprises and end-users that would benefit from (at least partially) blockchain-based processes.

## Parachains
## Web3 services, wallets, misc
## ...
