# Why Apillon?

The dawn of open-source and decentralized technologies has inspired the creation of systems that give individuals more power to exchange assets and open up new business opportunities while reducing their reliance on centralized authorities. However, even though the pace of technological progress has been outstanding, the adoption of decentralized solutions still awaits implementation in the real economy on a large scale.

Polkadot, one of the leading players in the Web3 ecosystem, is set to transform the way businesses, individuals, and organizations manage assets and data. Still, several factors hinder the broader adoption of Web3 solutions:

* Developers need to overcome a high entry barrier and master complex technical requirements.
* Investment in Web3 development requires tons of resources, from setting up a capable team to navigating a lengthy process and delivering tried and tested results.
* Price-performance ratio of Web3 solutions is often, albeit wrongfully, seen as unfavorable, as many businesses and users find them unconvincing, even risky, when it comes to employing blockchain technology in the real economy.
* Most Web3 products are packaged without price stability and predictability, SLAs, guarantees, support, and other common features of reliable Web2 solutions.
* A multitude of competing technologies makes it difficult to find the appropriate long-term solution.
* Many service providers require an understanding of their tokenomics, and integrating multiple Web3 technologies could drastically complicate the management of utilized tokens.

Apillon's unified points of access deliver the functionalities of Polkadot parachains to developers simply through APIs, so they can create a working Web3-based product from day one while mitigating or avoiding the issues above.

While each parachain is best at solving its own isolated case, Apillon is all about connecting and curating different parachains, protocols, or pallets into the right context that can be easily adopted by developers to build tangible products in Web3.

Simplification further applies to pricing, as the platform's NCTR token substitutes all the underlying payment requirements with a unified payment system. Payment plans in NCTR or fiat (EUR, USD) deliver price stability and predictability, ideal for enterprises and frequent users.

Building with Apillon does not require prior knowledge of blockchain technology and surpasses the hassle of lengthy testing and auditing. A streamlined product development substantially reduces the go-to-market timeline and resources spent in the process.

Apillon brings the power of distributed technologies to web developers and opens the floodgate to their widespread adoption. It democratizes the usability of advanced technologies and helps Web3 services reach wider and deeper.
