# How does it work?

Authtrail streamlines the complexity behind Polkadot and its parachains development and packs it into a suite of development tools that allow an easy transition for all Web2 developers.

It unites the essential development tools and links to the Polkadot ecosystem. It takes into account the standard ways of building an average developer is familiar with and does all the hard work for them.

The Authtrail platform combines the accessibility of Polkadot parachains through APIs, the practicality of SDKs, and the instructiveness of the complete documentation of each module. As a go-to development toolbox, it’s aimed both at developers that are yet to tap into the Web3 space as well as those who seek to upgrade their existing Web3 products.

The easy access and interoperability give builders an opportunity to combine use cases and integrate them seamlessly into conglomerates of distributed services, serving their audiences in a more wholesome way than they could with niche products.

## APIs

Authtrail APIs are easily integrated into any development framework and introduce a new way of Web3 development that significantly simplifies the go-to-market evolution.

Initially, the Authtrail platform will incorporate APIs to:
* Moonbeam
* KILT
* Crust
* Phala

In the future, we plan on adding more APIs as new parachains appear.

## SDKs

Easing the integration of the Authrail platform and its APIs, ample SDKs enable faster and more streamlined utilization of Polkadot/Kusama parachains from day one.

You can find more here.[GitHub]

## Documentation

Guiding developers’ way through the individual modules and dapp development process, Authtrail documentation helps them avoid bugs, mitigate operational issues, and create working products with less risk of error and less need for auditing.

You can find more here.[GitHub]

## Monitoring

Real-time overview of back-end performance

## Analytics

Clear insight into UI and transaction data
